{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Non-Functional Requirements for Student Record System (SRS)\par
Non-functional requirements define the overall qualities and attributes of the system that influence its performance, usability, security, scalability, and reliability. These requirements focus on how the system performs its tasks, rather than what tasks it performs. Below are the non-functional requirements for the Student Record System (SRS).\par
\par
1. Performance Requirements\par
NFR1.1: Response Time\par
\par
The system must respond to user requests within 2 seconds for most operations (e.g., loading the dashboard, displaying course details).\par
For complex operations (e.g., generating reports, course registration during peak periods), the system must complete within 10 seconds.\par
NFR1.2: Concurrent Users\par
\par
The system must support at least 1,000 simultaneous users without performance degradation.\par
During peak usage periods (e.g., course registration), the system should scale to support up to 10,000 concurrent users.\par
NFR1.3: Throughput\par
\par
The system should handle a transaction rate of at least 200 transactions per second, including student registration, grade updates, and course enrollment.\par
2. Availability and Reliability\par
NFR2.1: System Availability\par
\par
The system must be available 99.9% of the time, ensuring minimal downtime for maintenance and other system updates. This translates to less than 9 hours of downtime per year.\par
NFR2.2: Fault Tolerance\par
\par
The system must be able to handle failures gracefully without data loss. If a server or database fails, the system must provide fallback mechanisms (e.g., redundant systems or servers) to ensure continued operation.\par
NFR2.3: Backup and Recovery\par
\par
The system must perform daily backups of all critical data (e.g., student records, grades, attendance) and ensure that data can be recovered within 2 hours after any catastrophic failure.\par
3. Security Requirements\par
NFR3.1: Authentication and Authorization\par
\par
The system must implement strong authentication (e.g., multi-factor authentication) to ensure that only authorized users can access the system.\par
User roles and permissions must be strictly enforced to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data (e.g., students cannot access teacher or administrative records).\par
NFR3.2: Data Encryption\par
\par
All sensitive data (e.g., student personal information, grades, login credentials) must be encrypted using strong encryption algorithms (e.g., AES-256) both at rest and in transit (e.g., SSL/TLS for web communication).\par
NFR3.3: Security Audits\par
\par
The system must log all security-related events, including login attempts, data access, and changes to sensitive records, with a retention period of at least 1 year for auditing purposes.\par
NFR3.4: Data Privacy\par
\par
The system must comply with data privacy regulations such as GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) and FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act). Users must have the ability to request deletion of their personal data.\par
4. Usability Requirements\par
NFR4.1: User Interface (UI)\par
\par
The system must provide an intuitive and user-friendly interface that requires minimal training for students, teachers, and administrators to use effectively.\par
The UI should be consistent across all pages and devices (desktop, mobile).\par
NFR4.2: Accessibility\par
\par
The system must comply with WCAG 2.1 accessibility standards, ensuring that it is usable by people with disabilities, including compatibility with screen readers and keyboard navigation.\par
NFR4.3: Language Support\par
\par
The system must support at least two languages (e.g., English and one other language) to accommodate diverse user groups, with the ability to add more languages in the future.\par
5. Scalability\par
NFR5.1: Horizontal Scalability\par
\par
The system must be horizontally scalable, meaning it can add more servers or resources as the number of users grows without significant reconfiguration.\par
NFR5.2: Database Scalability\par
\par
The system must support scalable database solutions that can handle growing amounts of student records and transactional data as the institution expands.\par
NFR5.3: Load Balancing\par
\par
The system should use load balancing mechanisms to distribute user requests efficiently across available servers and avoid server overload.\par
6. Maintainability\par
NFR6.1: Code Quality\par
\par
The system must be built using clean, modular code that is easy to maintain, extend, and troubleshoot. Code should follow established coding standards and best practices.\par
NFR6.2: Documentation\par
\par
The system must include detailed documentation for both users and developers. User manuals should be provided to guide non-technical users, while technical documentation should assist developers in maintaining and upgrading the system.\par
NFR6.3: Error Logging and Troubleshooting\par
\par
The system should implement a centralized logging mechanism to capture errors, exceptions, and system activity for easy troubleshooting and performance monitoring.\par
7. Compatibility and Integration\par
NFR7.1: Browser Compatibility\par
\par
The system must be compatible with all major browsers (e.g., Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari) and should function correctly on both desktop and mobile versions of these browsers.\par
NFR7.2: Third-Party Integration\par
\par
The system must integrate with third-party systems such as email servers for notifications, payment gateways (if applicable), and academic tools for grades and assignment submissions.\par
NFR7.3: Data Import and Export\par
\par
The system should provide functionality for importing and exporting data in standard formats (e.g., CSV, XML) to facilitate data migration and integration with other institutional systems.\par
8. Compliance and Legal\par
NFR8.1: Regulatory Compliance\par
\par
The system must comply with relevant local, regional, and international regulations regarding data handling, security, and privacy, such as FERPA (for educational institutions in the U.S.) or GDPR (for institutions in the EU).\par
NFR8.2: Legal Audit Trail\par
\par
The system must maintain a legal audit trail of all data-related actions (e.g., adding, editing, or deleting student records) to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.\par
9. Environmental Requirements\par
NFR9.1: System Resource Utilization\par
\par
The system should optimize resource utilization, including memory, CPU, and bandwidth, to ensure efficient operation on available hardware.\par
NFR9.2: Energy Efficiency\par
\par
The system should be energy-efficient, especially if hosted in data centers, reducing environmental impact while maintaining optimal performance.\par
10. Backup and Disaster Recovery\par
NFR10.1: Backup Frequency\par
\par
Critical data must be backed up daily, and the system should allow for incremental backups at regular intervals throughout the day to minimize data loss in case of failure.\par
NFR10.2: Disaster Recovery Plan\par
\par
A disaster recovery plan should be in place that outlines how to restore data and resume operations within an acceptable time frame (e.g., 4 hours after a catastrophic failure).\par
Conclusion\par
These non-functional requirements are crucial for ensuring that the Student Record System (SRS) delivers a high-quality user experience, meets performance and security standards, and can scale as needed. The successful implementation of these requirements will ensure the system is efficient, reliable, and secure, while also being easy to use and maintain. Non-functional requirements focus on the system\rquote s ability to meet expectations regarding performance, reliability, security, and overall user satisfaction.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 